more than a million Palestinians remain
cut off in a war zone with the UN
warning of famine now some have been
able to escape the war tens of thousands
have managed to leave on visas or
because they have dual citizenship in
Belgium DW met some Gins who have been
welcomed by a local hotel
owner The Sound of Music instead of the
sound of
bombs here in Brussels Tark Toma is far
from the life he left behind in Gaza
before the war he hoped to find a better
life abroad and bring his family here
but since October 7th he's barely heard
from them and isn't sure if they are
alive or
dead they really wanted me to help them
get out but now I can't because of the
ferocity of the war because Crossings
are closed or
occupied tar is among 40 displac
Palestinian men that have been offered
free bed and bored at this Brussels
Hotel most left Gaza through Egypt on
Turkish visas months on many feel deeply
frustrated with the situation both at
home and here in Belgium what do you
wish for the future we have any wishes
future which
future which future Hotel owner Ben abam
is trying to give his guests some hope
as many attempt lengthy Asylum claims
and he's not alone in offering help and
donations
I had some some people came here and
they give me really some envelopes for
the Palestinian people here really to be
honest with you I mean I had the Jewish
people came here with envelope I don't
want to say all the names and they give
it to me said give it to Palestinian
people Belgium is now prioritizing
families seeking
shelter many single male Asylum Seekers
are ending up on the streets nonprofits
are stepping in to help these men like
this charity offering social health and
psychological
support not from the 7th of October our
work with Palestinians has increased
massively people come for consultations
and they're totally defeated and very
sad they've lost their family or they
can't reach
them T hopes the Waring parties will
stop fighting so he can be reunited with
his family
violence only leads to more violence and
all parties must stop the International
Community has to help us stop this war
let peace Prevail stop this war and then
negotiate the release of the
hostages until then all he can do is
leave a
message he leaves them voicemails every
day even though he's not sure they'll
ever be heard
I would like to welcome Thomas willin
from Flanders Refugee action in Brussels
now your organization I understand helps
many Palestinians who have made it to
Belgium build new lives there can you
tell us a little bit what the biggest
challenges are that they're
facing hi thank you for for having me
the biggest challenge for male palestin
Palestinian Asylum Seekers would be
first to get into the the shelter system
for Asylum Seekers as a single man you
are not given
access this reception Network on the day
of your Asylum application and then the
second challenge when you are in once
you are in reception network is getting
a decision on average it takes more than
a year to get a decision on your Asylum
claim even though in the case of people
from Gaza it is quite obvious that they
are in need of protection indeed
Palestinians who fled the Gaza a strip
do have a a pretty good chance of being
granted asylum in Belgium why do you
think it's taking so long to approve
their
status this is simply because we have a
lot of pending files also from Asylum
Seekers from other countries and even
though from the outset it is quite clear
that Palestinians from Gaza require
protection there is still an individual
investigation for every person applying
for Asylum and this individual
investigation takes time and that is one
of the reasons why it lasts so long and
we can only hope that this backlog will
be decreased in the near future and can
you tell us a little more detail about
what it means when these decisions are
delayed what does it look like when it
takes for example a young man time to
get into this system and and to find
housing well before getting into housing
you either have the option to survive on
the streets if you have no other
solution or you can try and squat a
building or live with friends there are
a lot of people in Brussels who sleep in
the streets whilst awaiting a decision
on their Asylum claim once you're in the
reception Network all you can do is wait
until you have that final decision on
your Asylum claim and before that
decision your life is put on hold you
can work but that is it apart from that
you have no idea if you can stay in
Belgium and you can also not start the
family reunification procedure for
family you have living in Gaza for
example because that is only possible
once you receive a positive decision on
your Asylum claim so life really remains
in limbo as you say in that report we
saw some some examples of people in
Belgium really helping Palestinian
refugees that hotel owner for example
when you look at Belgian Society more
widely how welcoming would you say
people have been
difficult to gauge I would say um
overall there is sympathy for people
from Palestine of course simply because
it is so obvious that this is a very
unfair Conflict for Palestinians from
Gaza who seek safety but on the other
hand we do see that the overall support
for Asylum seekers in general and their
reception has been decreasing even
though we saw that there is room for
support um for people who have to leave
their homes in the case of ukrainians so
it really depends for who and on what
moment um but overall I would say that
there is possibility for support but
that we just need to to better grasp
this support and to better use the
support now looking ahead when you speak
to refugees who you're helping in
Belgium do they do they plan to stay in
Belgium once the war comes to an end
typically
I must say that at this point in time
most Palestinians that we meet to not
look that far into the future they are
really concerned with the present
because a lot of the Palestinians from
Gaza still have family members living in
Gaza who have to live through bombs
falling on their houses um we often meet
people whose home has just been
destroyed the day before so they are
really concerned with getting their
family members out out of Gaza either
through family reunification if they
have the possibility to do so or through
other means like this very Infamous
Travel Agency in Egypt that gazans use
to leave the Gaza Strip which is already
very a difficult task and then obtaining
a Visa for Belgium is another difficult
task so it's really the focus on today
getting your family out and then they
will see what happens next well thank
you so much for speaking with us today
today on DW that is Thomas willin with a
fanders refugee action we very much
appreciate your
time my pleasure